Mean : The sum of all observations divided by number of observations

Median: the measure of location that specify the middle value of the data arranged in the least to highest.  
        for odd no of observations -> median is middle value
        for even no of observations -> mean of middle two no

Mode:  it is the observation that occur most frequently.

Midrange :  average of the largest and the smallest value in the data

Dispersion :  degree of the varation in the data i.e the numerical spread of data.

Range :  It is the difference between maximum value and minimum value of the data.

Interquartile Range (IQR) / (midspread)  : the difference betweeen the first and third quartile i.e Q3-Q1. 

Variance :  Commonly used measure of dispersion whose computations depends on the data.
            the larger the variance the more data are spread out from the mean and more variabilty one can expect in the observation 

Standard variation :  It is the square root of the variance 

Standardized values (Z- score) :  it provides the relative measure of the distance an observation is from the mean which is independent of the unit of measurements.

Coefficent of varatation (CV) :  it provides a relative measure of the dispersion in the data relative to the mean 
                                 CV = standard deviation / Mean
                                 smalar coefficent of variance -> smaller relative risk
                                 the receprocal of coefficent of variance is return to risk

Measure of Shapes:
1.  Skewness :
  -  it describes the lack of symmetry of data.
  -  the coefficent of skewness (CS) measures the degree of asymmetry of observation around the mean.
  -  histograms having only one peak is called the unimodal.
  -  histograms having only two peaks is called the bimodal.
  -  CS positive -> distribution of values is positively skewed.
  -  CS negative -> distribution of values is negatively skewed.
  -  CS zero -> less degree of skewness.
  -  high skewness -> CS > 1 or Cs <-1
  -  moderate skewness ->Cs between 0.5 to 1 or -0.5 to -1.
  -  relative skewness -> CS betwen 0.5 to -0.5.
  -  more mass on right and tail of at right ->negative skewness.
  -  more mass on left and tail of at left -> positive skewness.
  -  negative skweness -> mean < median < mode
  -  positive skewness -> mode < median < mean

2. Kurtosis :
  -  it refers to the peakness or flatness of the histogram.
  -  Coefficent of kurtosis (CK) measures the degree of kurtosis of the population 


