Probability : 
  -  likehood that an outcome occurs.
  -  between 0 and 1

Expriment :
  -  process that results in an outcome.

outcome:
  -  the result that we observe.

Sample space:
  -  collection of possible outcomes of an expriments 
  -  consist of small no of discrete outcomes or infinite number of outcomes.

Combination :
  -  count of unique outcomes.
  -  order does not matter
  -  no of combinations of selecting n objects from a set N is 
      C(n,N) = N! / (n!(N-n)!

Permutation :
  -  select n objcts from the N and oder matters 
  -  no of permutation of selecting n objects from a set N is
      P(n,N) = N! / (N-n)!

probability defination 
  1.  classical defination of probability.
  2.  relative frequency defination.
  3.  subjective defination 

event:
  -  collection of one or more outcomes of the sample space

Union: 
  -  events containing all the outcomes that belong to the either of the two events.

intersection:
  -  events containing all the outcomes beloging to both the events.
  
Mutually Exclusive:
  -  two events are nutually exclusive if they have no outcomes in common.

probalbility rules:
  rule 1:
    -  probability of any even is the sum of probability of outcomes that comprises that event.
    -  if A is event , then Complement of A denoted as A' consist of all outcomes in the sampple space not in A
  rule 2:
    -  probability of the complement of any event is P(A')= 1-P(A).
  rule 3:
    -  if events A and B are mutually exclusive then P(A OR B) = P(A) + P(B).
  rule 4:
    -  if events A and B are not mutually exclusive then P(A OR B) = P(A) + P(B) - P(A AND B).

Joint Probability:
    -  the probabilty of two or more evr=ents is called as joint probabilty
    -  probability of intersection of two events
    -  probability of events A and b.
    -  the joint probabilty of events A and B is calculated as probability of event A given B multipied by Probability of event B
    -  P (A and B) / P(A^B) / P(A,B)
    -  P(A and B) = P(A given B) - P(B) =  P(B given A) - P(A).

Marginal probalbility: 
    -  the probability of event , irrespective of the outcome of the other joint event 
    -  sum of probabilities for the other variable on marginal table 
    -  P(X=A) =  sum P(X=A, Y = yi) for all y

Conditional probability:
    -  probability of one to one or more variable 
    -  probability of occurence of one event A given that the event B is true or already occured.
    -  P(A given B) / P(A|B)
    -  P(A given B)=P(A and B )/P(B)

Random variable:
    -  numerical description of the outcome of all components of an expriments.
    -  function that assigns a real number to each element of the sample space 

Discrete Random variable:
    -  the number of possible outcomes can be counted

Continuous random variable:
    -  outcomes over one or more continous intervals of real numbers 

Probability distribution:
    -  characterization of the psiible values that random variable may assume along with the probability of assuming these values
    -  discrete or continous

Empirical probability distribution 
    -  approximation of the probability distribution of the associated random variable.

probability mass function :
  -  probability distribution of discrete outcomes 
  -  denoted by f(x)
  -  properties:
  1.  probability of outcome must be 0 or 1. (0<= f(xi) <=1 for all i)
  2.  sum of probabilities must be 1 

cummulative Distributon function :F(x)
  -  probability that the random variable X assumes that a value less than or equal to specified value x.
  -  denoted as P(X<=x)

Expected value :
  -  correspounds to the notion of mean or average 
  -  E(X) = ∑ (xi * F(xi))
  where:
    E(X) is the expected value of X
    x is a possible value of X  
    F(x) is the probability of X taking the value x
    ∑ is the summation symbol, meaning we need to add up the product of x and P(x) for all possible values of X
      

BERNOULLI DIATRIBUTION:
  -  
  
